After our breakout Q&A session we brainstormed for about an hour
deciding what our "mission statement" was as concise as possible.
We decided that our main goal was to "Create a web application that
improves the efficiency of registering and tracking spontaneous
volunteers by management during each disaster"

REQUIREMENTS
We then asked ourselves what we wanted to achieve in our solution.
Number 1; better user experience. We wanted to make a product that
reduced the number of stages involved in the day of a spolunteer,
a spontaneous volunteer, and also made the signing up process more
user friendly.
We achieved this through our second requirement; more mobile use.
The spolunteers needed a quick and easy way to sign up to volunteer
that didn't take up too much of the grey shirts' time and we agreed
that the most successful way to do this would be through a web
application.
Thirdly, we needed a solution that would work for potentially many
volunteers.
Fourthly a secure system that better handled the potentially
sensitive information held on the spolunteers and limited the amount
of fields that each manager at different stages of the sign up
process had to view.
Fifth we wanted a way to uniquely identify each spolunteer so that
lastly, the managers knew where each spolunteer was meant to be
throughout the day, further to the colour on their armband.

PROCESS
Spolunteers sign up to volunteer via a mobile friendly web
application either en route to the site or at reception. By giving
them the option of signing up and filling out their details
beforehand it saves crowding and time wasted at reception.
They also have the chance to watch training videos online, again
saving time when they actually arrive on site.
On arrival they can be identified by their email address and assigned
a unique spolunteer number by a unique QR code.
The spolunteer number is stored in the database and is used to track
the availability and location of spolunteers throughout the day.

 At the interview stage the staff member can identify the volunteer
 by their number or QR code and talk through the skills that the
 volunteer identified in the sign up form. This has to be done in
 person but can then be ticked off on the database and the volunteer
 can progress to the holding tent.

 Staff can now use the database to see how many spolunteers are
 available and filter the list to identify and use spolunteers with
 specific skills sets. The most suitable would be unique to each
 disaster. As each volunteer goes out their QR code is scanned
 and they are assigned to a team, easily identifiable by a database
 query.

 At the end of the day the spolunteer has to return their armband
 and the QR code is scanned again which removes their spolunteer
 number from the database thus indicating to the manager that they
 are no longer available. Spolunteers can then indicate their future
 availability. If a spolunteer finishes a second shift they are
 sent an email asking if they would like to sign up to be a grey
 shirt.

WHY HAVE YOU USED THAT SOFTWARE/LANGUAGE/TECH
 So how have we implemented these processes? Sign up is made via
 a mobile site because it is a widely accessible platform
 and volunteers can complete the information either en route to
 or at the site. We have used....
 The database is built using mysql because it is more secure than
 a google form and can be linked both with the mobile application
 and an app for the QR code.
 The QR code is built using unity...


TECHNICAL
 Website is built using...

 The database is built using mysql and addresses scalability,
 security and location track. It is split into two tables; the first
 one stores the sign up information each spolunteer fills out on the
 mobile site. It can store large amounts of data and each member of
 staff has to sign into it. In the interests of privacy, each manager
 can limit what information is visible to them by running specific
 queries which we wrote using javascript. It satisfies location track
 by working the the QR code. When the spolunteer is in the holding tent
 they have a spolunteer number given with the QR code but no workforce
 holding number. When the volunteer goes out on site their QR code is
 scanned and they are assigned a workforce holding number. When the
 spolunteer returns to the holding tent their QR code is scanned and
 their workforce holding number deleted on the database indicating
 they are free again. When they finally sign out their QR code is
 scanned one last time and their spolunteer number is deleted meaning
 they are no longer on site. We think this is a good way to keep
 track of volunteers as once within a team they should be contactable
 via their grey shirt team leader.

 The QR code scanner is a Unity app which can be deployed on any platform. It aims to simplify and dramatically speed up the tasks of staff, especialy in the Holding area, where people are moving fast when called into operation. A group of spolunteers leaving the area can be tracked and assigned to a team within seconds by simply standing by the door and scanning the QR codes on their armbands as they walk by, no interaction required.
